Hello everyone and welcome back.
In the last lesson we learned from a high level what it is these security rules are trying to do in
this lesson.
We're actually going to tackle writing our first security rule and the first thing we're going to write
for is the user's collection that we have.
So let's just quickly take a quick step back and understand the moving parts inside of our user flow
from the get go because we're going to actually retouch upon a lot of topics that we touched over before.
But in the context of security rules let's just go back to our application for a quick second and look
at our get snapshot from user auth method.
This was inside of our saga and as we remember what happens whenever a user actually signs in.
We get some user auth object that we then use to call our create user profile document method inside
of our firebase utilize if we were to just quickly console log this user off object we will remember
that what this user off object has is actually a little bit different from what it is that we're storing
this object has all of these properties on it because this off object comes from the actual authentication
section of our firebase.
This authentication happens through our Google provider or through our email and password but in the
case of our actual application we take this user off object and we use it to create a new user profile
document we might pass in the email and we pass in the UI D which as you remember is the I.D. that automatically
gets assigned to every authenticated user inside of our application.
We use those properties to actually build out our user profile document which is inside of our database
inside of our users collection and why this is important is because we're actually going to need this
UI D as well inside of our security rules.
And right now it might seem confusing but I promise you that it will make sense once we start writing
it.
Just remember that there is this off object which is different from the actual user document that we
have stored.
So let's actually explore how these two things come together inside of the security world that we're
going to write for our users collection inside of our users collection.
Let's first delete this part of our match statement and keep the service line as well as the first match
database line and make a new match statement for our users Slash.
And then here is going to be a wild card that we write inside of these parentheses.
So this slash user's points to our users collection this slash and then the parentheses here we are
actually saying we want to target all of the documents.
The reason we do this is because we sometimes need access to the actual object that is being stored.
For example if we wanted to make sure or do something with the name we can access the name or the email
for example on this user object that we have stored we can actually access it by saying Here user dot
data dot email or user dot data dot displaying this dot data property allows us to access the different
attributes on this user document reference object in our case however we want the I.D. the I.D. In our
case is not stored on the data it's actually what's used to reference the data object here.
This is the I.D. but it's not actually a field on this object.
So what we need to do in order to access it is leverage one of the available wildcards we have inside
of security rules.
So what are wildcards.
Wild cards are kind of like these methods that firebase gives us access to inside of these security
rules that allow us to fetch specific things.
So in this case this user object here we saw how we could get different properties off of these specific
document object model that we're using in this case we only want the I.D. so we can use the wild card
I.D. like this which lets us access the identifier of this document reference object.
If this was say collections you would do the same thing by saying collection I.D. just by writing the
syntax firebase understands that what you want to access is the I.D. itself.
So by doing this we now have access to the idea that we can use inside of our actual rule we've so far
only seen us do hard allows like this.
If I were to say allow read I'm saying that anyone can read all of the things related to our users collection
but we actually in production don't want this.
We only want the user to be able to read their own user object.
We don't want them to be able to read other people's user objects.
We also definitely don't want them to write an overwrite other people's user objects.
So this allows us to actually do so and we do this through a conditional conditionals inside of Firestorm
security rules look very summer to conditional inside of JavaScript.
It's also an if statement the way that we write it though is a little different.
First we're going to say is allow read.
So what we want them to be allowed to do and then we put this colon after this colon will put if and
then here is the actual condition itself so every single request that gets made to update to get to
read to delete whatever.
This all actually gets encapsulated inside of a keyword in the security rules called request this request
keyword is essentially an object that represents the request coming in.
So what we're saying is that we want to allow read if the request coming in has been authenticated if
the request coming in to get a user document object is not authenticated we definitely don't want to
give them the user object because then nobody inside of the application if they're on our web app or
if they download our code and they're trying to access our user objects but they're not authenticated
why would we ever want to give them any of our user data.
We definitely would.
So we want to say that if request off does not equal null remember here we're allowing read only if
request is authenticated in the first place.
So if the request off is not null then we also want to make sure that the user that is authenticated
is only able to get their own user Document object inside of our database.
So here we're saying we're allowing the read if the requests start off is not no.
This off happens to be an object that has on it the UI.
And this off object looks very similar to the one that we explored earlier in the course when I console
logged it out from our saga.
So what we're going to say here is that the requests are off you I.D. must also equal the user I.D.
of the user object that they're trying to get in the first place.
So what this rule is saying is that I'm allowing read if requests to authors not null.
So they're authenticate in the first place and the UI d of the authenticated user matches the user Document
Object that they're trying to get.
So this is pretty much the only user rule that we want to write for allowing them to read in order for
us to actually test this we don't have to publish this code yet we can test this using the simulator.
The simulator allows us to actually run against our security rules here before we publish them because
sometimes in production our code already depends on the existing rules of our database.
We don't want to screw anything up and ruin the experience for users that are currently using our application.
So we test them inside of this simulator.
So you click this tab for simulator here and here you're able to simulate different types of requests.
The one that we're testing of course is get because we're trying to test our read rule.
So here we want to say that I want to test get against our user document and the document I'm trying
to get is this one.
So let's just copy this over and this is the idea of the user object.
I'm trying to get now this authenticated have is turned off meaning that we're doing a UN authenticated
request.
So if we run this we'll see that the simulator read was denied because the request does not authenticate.
So so far that's working.
Next let's test if we actually authenticated and what we want to authenticate is let's say our custom
authentication and we want to pass in the UI I.D. which is the one that we are ready.
Just copy meaning that we're trying to access it with the UI I.D. matching the user I.D. If we run here
we see that it's allowed.
This is successful because our user I.D. matches the you I.D. that I just passed inside of this object
here.
Now let's say this was a little different let's cut this out so that it doesn't match.
If we run again we'll see that it's the.
So this means that our user rule is working only users that are requesting a user object that is their
own.
Meaning that you I.D. matches the user I.D. we'll be able to access their own user object.
And with this we have written off our security rule it.
It's a little bit weird syntax wise.
I know it's to get used to and the simulator will take some playing around with to get fully familiar
with all of its features but this is really all these security rules are based off of it's pretty much
just these conditions based on certain keywords you have to get used to that are accessible inside of
the security rules.
That's really all it is.
And we're going to definitely write more.
This is just the first introduction to our very first security rule.
But just like that we've just written our first one so let's keep going.
And let's tackle the rules for creating as well as our collections collection.
We'll do that in the subsequent lessons.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.